# Duke User Guide
Duke is a Java-based Command Line Interface (CLI) Task Manager application
that helps the users keep track of the tasks they need to do.

## Quick Start
1. Ensure you have Java `11` or above installed in your Computer.
2. Download the latest `duke.jar` [here](https://github.com/e0260222/ip/releases).
3. Copy `duke.jar` to the folder you want to use as the home folder for Duke.
4. Navigate to the home folder for Duke on your CLI program.
5. Launch Duke by running the command `java -jar duke.jar`.
6. Type the command in the CLI program and press `Enter` to execute it.
<br>Some example commands you can try:
    - `todo Go to the gym`: Adds a todo to Duke.
    - `deadline Finish homework 2020-09-30 1800`: Adds a deadline to Duke.
    - `list`: Lists all tasks in Duke.
    - `done 1`: Marks the first task shown in the list as done.
7. Refer to **Features** below for details of each command.

## Features
Notes about the command format:
- Words in UPPER_CASE are the parameters to be supplied by the user.
E.g. `DESCRIPTION` in the command `todo DESCRIPTION`.
- Parameters with `...` after them can be used multiple times.
E.g. `KEYWORD` in the command `find KEYWORD...`.

### Adding a todo: `todo`
Adds a `todo` to Duke. `todo` is a task that has a description.

Format: `todo DESCRIPTION`

Example of usage: `todo Read book`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Got it! I have added this task:
      [T][N] Read book
      Now you have 1 tasks in the list.
```

### Adding a deadline: `deadline`
Adds a deadline to Duke. `deadline` is a task that has a description,
and it must be done by a specified date and time.

Format: `deadline DESCRIPTION /by DATE_TIME`
- `DATE_TIME` must be in yyyy-MM-dd HHmm  format. E.g. `2020-09-20 1800`.

Example of usage: `deadline Finish TIC4001 quiz /by 2020-09-20 1800`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Got it! I have added this task:
      [D][N] Finish TIC4001 quiz (by: 20 Sep 2020 6:00PM)
      Now you have 2 tasks in the list.
```

### Adding an event: `event`
Adds an event to Duke. `event` is a task that has a description,
and it will happen at a specified time period.

Format: `event DESCRIPTION /at DATE_TIME DURATION_IN_MINUTES`
- `DATE_TIME` must be in yyyy-MM-dd HHmm  format. E.g. `2020-09-20 1800`.
- `DURATION_IN_MINUTES` must be a positive integer.

Example of usage: `event Attend party /at 2020-09-21 1900 90`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Got it! I have added this task:
      [E][N] Attend party (at: 21 Sep 2020 7:00PM to 21 Sep 2020 8:30PM)
      Now you have 3 tasks in the list.
```

### Listing all tasks: `list`
Lists all tasks in Duke.

Format: `list`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Here are the tasks in your list:
      1. [T][N] Read book
      2. [D][N] Finish TIC4001 quiz (by: 20 Sep 2020 6:00PM)
      3. [E][N] Attend party (at: 21 Sep 2020 7:00PM to 21 Sep 2020 8:30PM)
```

### Finding tasks: `find`
Finds tasks in Duke that match any of the specified keywords.

Format: `find KEYWORD...`

Example of usage: `find read finish`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Here are the matching tasks in your list:
      1. [T][N] Read book
      2. [D][N] Finish TIC4001 quiz (by: 20 Sep 2020 6:00PM)
```

### Marking task as done: `done`
Marks the specified task in Duke as done.

Format: `done TASK_INDEX`

Example of usage: `done 1`
- `list` or `find` command must be executed first before using the `done` command.
- `TASK_INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `list` or `find` command.
- `TASK_INDEX` must be a positive integer.

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: I have marked this task as done:
      [T][Y] Read book
```

### Deleting a task: `delete`
Deletes the specified task in Duke.

Format: `delete TASK_INDEX`

Example of usage: `delete 1`
- `list` or `find` command must be executed first before using the `delete` command.
- `TASK_INDEX` refers to the index number shown in the list generated by the `list` or `find` command.
- `TASK_INDEX` must be a positive integer.

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Noted! I've removed this task: 
      [T][Y] Read book
      Now you have 2 tasks in the list.
```

### Exiting Duke: `bye`
Exits from Duke.

Format: `bye`

Expected outcome:
```
Duke: Bye! Hope to see you again soon.
```

### Saving data
There is no save command because any change to the data in Duke will be automatically saved.
